---
layout: page
title: "Crontab"
category: scheduled-jobs
date: 2017-02-23 18:29:32
---

# Crontab

This project contains *tasks.cron* file that is used to add cronjobs. It is automatically imported into cronjobs on container startup and compatible with normal crontab syntax.

We advise to use this feature instead of `wp_cron` cause the default runner for `wp_cron` is triggered by a http request. This can lead to surprising situations in small sites where there's not much traffic. 

Luckily this behaviour can be disabled by using:
```
define('DISABLE_WP_CRON', false);'
```

If the default wp_cron is disabled the developer should use our alternative script for running scheduled tasks registered with [wp_schedule_event()](https://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/wp_schedule_event):
```
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/wp-run-cron
```

This way WordPress can delete old posts in trash, publish new posts marked in the future etc...

**IMPORTANT NOTE!**
Please make sure there is a blank line after the last cronjob entry.

## Redis credentials
Our docker-wordpress-server container uses cronlock binary. It uses REDIS_HOST enviroment variable by default. If you wan't to use different Redis set variables *CRONLOCK_HOST, CRONLOCK_AUTH, CRONLOCK_PORT*.


## Running wp cli

You can set WP cli to execute your functions like this:

```
* * * * * wp eval "my_function();" 
```

Example:
Use `wp eval` to call fetchRSS(); after every ten minutes.
```
*/10 * * * * wp eval 'RSSFetcher::fetchRSS();'
```
This is the recommended way to execute PHP.

Handy tool for cronjob timing: https://crontab.guru


## Testing
A handy way to test cron is to update transient with current Unix timestamp in every minute.
```
* * * * *  /usr/local/bin/wp eval 'set_transient( "cron_test", microtime(), HOUR_IN_SECONDS );
```
Then you can run to see if the transient updates.

```
wp eval 'echo get_transient("cron_test");'
```

## Mails
If the command fails cron will send the output from the command as mail to address defined in MAILTO.

This is actually quite useful information and when developing you can set this to their own mail.

So you should define a sensible email address or set it to null. 

```
MAILTO=""
```
If not set at all cron will send emails to default email which is not working. This can cause unwanted load for example to SMTP client trying to deliver the mails to nonexistent address.
